Dhawal Bakshi - Code snippets - excel / power bi samples - use of xlwings add-in with python / rust / gcc / clang generated dlls on windows (compiled without Visual Studio). 

DLL paths in python script files need to be checked and changed depending on your local drive and folder names where you clone this repository. UDFs in python scripts (.py files with same names as excel files) linked to excel files may not work if that is not done. Simply cloning the repository may not suffice. Applicable only for dll files linked via cffi library of Python. UDFs not involving such dlls will work without changing anything (simply cloning the repository).

This repository is updated frequently (may not be on day-to-day basis) with new changes, samples as I discover something new in excel - like functions, etc.

Excel 365 has been used – for all excel files – formulas, functions, etc. Some functions may not be backward compatible (with older excel versions).

Nothing much on power bi side – only a few random samples have been included, just to get started with it.

A Folder has been included exclusively for chat sessions with Bing ai / perplexity ai / google bard (now Gemini) (but mainly, about 99%, I have used Bing ai – GPT 4 engine) – All codes have been generated by AI and tested as can be seen in AI chat sessions looking at the conversations with AI.

C / C++ sources have been compiled using mingw64 - gcc / g++ toolchain in msys2 bash shell.

Rust codes have been compiled using cargo builds (projects) as they involved new crates. Hence could not be compiled directly using rustc. I have not explored workarounds which may make it possible to compile Rust source via rustc.

I have not focussed on code optimisations much (dll and exe file sizes may seem quite big compared to the sources), but rather on exploring how features can be used in a novel way with Excel.

For those not initiated with git procedures that can be accomplished using git command - I recommend following git documentation or ride on the back of any AI chatbot - I have learned that way (being myself from commerce domain). Some git commands:

Before that, just a small note: I have used command prompt (PowerShell / windows cmd (default)) etc. for all git commands. There are a few GUI based git management software available - many are free - You can google to find out more. 

When using command prompt, following may be useful guide:

•	first time pulling the repository from GitHub URL: use: git clone (repository URL) from command prompt.

•	From next time onwards – simply using:  git pull - will refresh / update repository folder on local drive with new changes.

Prerequisites for using the functionalities in full:

1. Python installation on windows with necessary packages like pandas, NumPy and others which have been mentioned on .py script files (See all import commands at the start of the .py scripts files). Packages are installed using package manager pip in python. Some packages come pre-built when you install python. Some packages like cffi allow C / C++ dll interface on Windows.   

2. Msys2 (which emulates Linux like cloning on windows, has bash shell with all main bash command line compatibilities like Linux for compilation using ./configure and has arch Linux like package manager Pacman to manage / update packages). Although some packages may not compile easily due to "dependency hell" as they say.

3. Mingw64 toolchains (gcc - clang (LLVM) - optionally, gcc / clang (LLVM) for ucrt) to be installed in msys2 using Pacman -S command. This is mainly for compilation of sources (c / c++). GCC or CLANG (LLVM) are optional standards for compilation of C / C++ codes and anyone could be used. More recent sources compilations may require additional packages like cmake / meson / ninja as prerequisites. Python (recent versions) is gradually shifting to meson / ninja style compilations from the conventional make style. I have avoided using proprietary building environment like visual studio (which requires admin rights to install on windows) and instead relied on gcc / clang which apart from doing away with admin rights have advantage of cross compilation across OS like Windows / Linux.

4. Rust toolchain for compiling rust / cargo projects. Rust allows cross compilation so the sources used on Windows can be used to compile on Linux and vice versa.

5. Excel 365 (to avoid errors due to absence of backward compatibility of some new excel functions / add-ins)

6. xlwings add-in which requires python. A very useful add-in which jailbreaks excel from power query. You can write SQL scripts directly in excel (much simpler than power query). Also, python UDF (user defined functions) can be executed directly from excel - much more powerful than archaic vba coding.

7. Not strictly a pre-requisite: Ability to drive AI chatbots in a logical manner to achieve code definitions, testing, optimisations, etc.

